---
draft: false
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly
date: 2020-09-10
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Stack Overflow
  - Learning
---

## Is There Such Thing As a Stupid Question
We all know the notorious line we have heard our teachers say at least once and that is _there is no such thing as a stupid question_. This phrase suggests that knowledge always comes with failure and that no one should ever be afraid to ask for help when they feel lost. As this saying is thrown around, it sort of loses its meaning. To keep it simple, the phrase is misconstrued as an excuse to be fed the answers as a result of laziness.While this may not always be the case for every individual who asks a “stupid” question, we must learn to differentiate between the “stupid” questions implied by the teachers and the “not so smart” questions that many confuses it with. To do this, we must begin to understand what constitutes a “smart” question.

## The Question We Are All Looking For
To begin with, smart questions are not selfish. In other words, they are formulated from authentic curiosity backed by built knowledge. It is not a sad excuse to be spoon-fed an answer one feels entitled to. Smart questions have an effect of enhancing the learning environment. This means that rather than just asking for an answer to get an answer, smart questions go through a deliberate and thoughtful process of asking for one. Prior to asking a smart question, an individual must do their part by looking for the answer. This can be done by researching keywords on Google or forums that may cover such topics. Needless to say, smart questions are formulated from acquired knowledge and essentially persistence. The formulation of such a question takes into consideration its clarity and its complexity. In simpler terms, it makes the question clear and precise for the individuals that one may be asking it from. If no one understands what is being asked, well, then that leaves for more questions to be formed.

## The Rose and the Thorn
[Thorn One](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3455660/single-layer-neural-network?answertab=votes#tab-top)

The first “not smart” question, which I will refer to as _thorn one_, right off the bat hits the audience with an indistinct subject line: “Singular Neural Network”. This subject line tells us nothing about what question or particular issue this individual may be having trouble with regards to this topic. Assuming one were to surpass such an unclear subject line, they find themselves diving deeper into a bigger hole. _Thorn one_ goes on to present two data files for the implementation of a “single layer neural network” and proceeds to introduce the problem. Immediately, it can be concluded that this problem was copied and pasted from an assignment of some sort. Finally, _thorn one_ introduces the code they had formulated as an attempt to tackle the problem and essentially ends it off at “it is not working”. Although, _thorn one_ presented information for the problem they have been presented, they give little to no information as to what specific guidance they needed. There were no clear and precise questions left for the audience and expected them to practically debug the issue step by step for them. Even though there was an individual kind enough to tackle this thorn, the “not smart” question did not contribute to the learning environment, as a result the question was deemed “closed” as it is “unlikely to help any future visitors”.

[Thorn Two](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13519990/why-does-i-j-k-j-i-kk-i-j-11)

The second “not smart” question, which I will refer to as _thorn two_, introduces a fairly direct subject line as to what question they want to be answered. However, as we explore the question further we unravel the laziness surrounding it. _Thorn two_ proceeds to introduce how such code produces a particular result that they just can’t quite comprehend. While it is okay to not understand the abstraction of the code, in fact anything for that matter, there were no steps taken prior to asking the question as a last resort. This can be inferred from the fact that the sub-questions asked about the functions of  operators (+=, +++, --, and \|=) could have easily been answered had they simply “STFW” or “RTFM” (from the wise words of Eric Steven Raymond: [How To Ask Questions the Smart Way](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html
)). In fact, if the operator questions were copied and pasted immediate resources to read upon is available, even on Wikipedia.

[The Rose](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11227809/why-is-processing-a-sorted-array-faster-than-processing-an-unsorted-array)

Enough of the “not smart” questions and let’s change our lens to evaluate what a “smart” question may look like. The smart question, which I will refer to as _the rose_, asks “why processing a sorted array is faster than an unsorted array”. While this is a question that can easily be researched, the contents of this inquiry separates itself from the traditional “give me the answer because I am lazy” questions. What I mean by this is that _the rose_ gives context as to how and why this question was formulated. They provided a code, in which they distinctly describe the differentiating run times in specific instances. By presenting such information, the audience have a sense of what framed their confusion and curiosity. _The rose_ continues to expand upon the steps they have taken to understand if this is a matter of an anomaly or error on their end by testing the code in another language. They finalize their thoughts by providing what other possible errors they may have encountered and left a clear question that circles back to their subject line. 

## Finding the Right Question Is Harder Than Finding the Right Answer
