---
draft: false
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Lint That Meets the Standards
date: 2020-09-24
labels:
  - IntelliJ
  - ESLint
  - Coding Standards
---
## Washing Our Codes Clean
I have initially viewed coding standards to be a painstaking task. Although it is a bit time-consuming to work around it is nevertheless like doing laundry...a necessity. When I think about coding standards my mind immediately goes to the technicalities surrounding it. How much spaces and indents to include? _How much detergent to put?_ When to use let, const, or var or where to place the brackets and parenthesis? _Where to put the light and dark colors?_ There is a lot that goes into it, but it makes understanding the inner workings of a code much more easier. Understanding why it has to be written in certain ways allows us to pinpoint the relationships of the surrounding factors of the code. Needless to say, these relationships are not all the same for every language utilized, which makes it even more important to appreciate the fundamentals behind it. While we are learning the correct way to write code, we are subconsciously also learning why we have to do so in such particular manner. To keep it simple, coding standards is the backbone of universal code which allows for readability and reduced complexity.

## The Lint Worthy of Saving
No, I am not talking about the fine fibers leftover in your dryer...I am talking about THE lint, ESLint. I have never heard of ESLint until it was graciously introduced to me quite literally a week ago. That is probably why seven days ago I was terrible at washing my code...no that is not a typing error, I genuinely mean code not clothes. With all jokes aside, ESLint is quite literally spell check if it was essentially a thousand times more informative and relevant. It is most especially helpful when code needs to be fixed in such a short amount of time. Personally, I have a tendency to lose track of where some of my functions begin and end, most times due to how I arrange them. This allows me to let my mind flow, without worries of having to be confused as much because I am presented with a screen filled with red underlines afterwards. However, that is not the goal of ESLint...it is not an excuse to rely solely on "spell-check" to carry your back. To be more accurate, it acts more like a peer editor that's analyzing your code as you construct it. From my perspective, I believe it is an effective learning experience and a great form of practice to see what you might be doing wrong in real time. This allows my mind, personally, to make connections efficiently and sort of make predictions as to what can be done next, to fix these issues presented before me without actually looking at what that may be beforehand.

## The Ironing of Code
Coding standards are standards that lay the groundwork for what makes up the realm of computer programming languages. That statement may take a bit of time to comprehend, as I am completely speaking from personal experience. But to make it more comprehensible, coding standards are what basically makes it easier to understand why languages are built the way they are. If we understand why and how to code correctly in various languages, it allows us to expand our skills and knowledge as to how we can create better and more efficient code. By learning to create something that is comprehensive, we can allocate more time on innovation. Like doing laundry, it is a necessity to understand the coding standards. Furthermore, if we take the time to practice coding standards, as we would practice any craft we want to be better in, we are also learning to iron the skills we have in that particular language of code. In turn, we can create programs that goes beyond what we can imagine and hopefully one day we can look back on those squiggly red lines and think to ourselves..._I would not be where I am today without it_.