---
draft: false
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Workout for U and I
date: 2020-10-08
labels:
  - Web Development
  - Semantic UI
  - UI Frameworks
---
## The Warm Up
<p>What a workout it has been with trying to wrap my head around UI Frameworks this past week. Like going to the gym or going out to run...it is a love and hate relationship. Wait...you’ve never heard of such a thing before? Well don’t fret, cause I’m here to break down the sets and reps, but let’s start with a little warm-up. Let’s begin.</p>
<p>What are UI Frameworks? I can begin by telling you the technicalities of it all, but I don’t want to strain your brain muscles just yet. To keep it simple, UI Framework is the magic behind the many websites and applications you have seen across different platforms of the internet and devices. It is what helps structure a user-friendly environment while establishing an aesthetically pleasing look...well at least for some. From a personal standpoint, it’s an absolute necessity because it’s what helps lure the audience to utilize what a developer has created. Although we must not judge a book by its cover, first impressions remain important. So if a website or application look cheap and unappealing chances are people feel less inclined to give it a chance. So that’s where UI Frameworks come into play even further!
</p>

## The Sets and Reps
<p>Now that I covered the gist of UI Frameworks let’s dive in to our sets. Think of UI Frameworks as the weights or treadmills in a gym, essentially as a tool. You can choose not to use it, but might you learn to use it properly the progress towards that desired look is even closer! Although learning UI Frameworks take a lot of patience and practice as like with any language, it makes programming a design fun and much easier.</p>
<p>Over this past week I have learned to build a set of mock websites. I will admit, it was not that easy. The tools and instructions were in front of me, but I had to train again and again just to fully grasp its functionality. What do I mean by this? I’m talking about the different classes of elements and behaviors such as containers, grids, segments, lists as well as the variations that come along with it. It was a bit overwhelming, more so because I was genuinely excited to use all of them all at once. But analogous to working out, we shouldn’t be doing multiple reps at once. It needs to be taken in chunks hence our sets. I unfortunately learned this the hard way and went through a whole session taking everything all in at once. Initially, I was not able to grasp the importance of each element and class in its full capacity because I tried to go through all of it in one sitting. Fortunately, after a couple days of practice, I tested out each elements and experimented with it. For example, what would occur if I put a grid inside a container or vice versa? Those sort of curiosities became a reinforcement to comprehending what each framework element brought to the table. With this newfound learning, it enabled me to comfortably and methodically plan out how I would build certain structures of a webpage, such as the menu bar or even how to place a text onto an image.</p>

## Decompress to Impress
<p>Oof! How was that workout? Not too intimidating right? Right. To reiterate with UI Frameworks, it's important to take things into small parts. Treat it like a work out, spend an hour a day in a week learning each element, implementing it, and if you really want to get crazy experiment with it. As someone who personally loves design ranging from graphics to film, I think UI Frameworks is the tool that sort of brings out the inner artist in developers. Many of us may claim that we are not artist or we simply can't create something remotely "cool", but with practice and some learning it's possible. Again, it's similar to the process of working out! We may claim we are not athletic, but we don't have to be athletic to start somewhere and try to achieve the fitness level we want to be in. With this in mind, go out there and learn UI Frameworks you may feel discourages at first when you don't understand it, but I promise you if you stick with it for at least a week or two...you will find yourself saying that this is the workout for U and I.  
</p>